# DATA STRUCTURE:
The Logical or mathmatical model of a particuler organization of data is called a **data structure**. 

# Aplications of Data Structure:
Data structures can be linear or non-linear, based on the way their data is accessed. Linear are those in which data is stored in a sequential manner, and can be accessed in a sequence too. Non-linear are those which hold the data together without focusing on its sequence. The data cannot be arranged or accessed in a sequence. Following are common Data Structure with their respective applications:

- **Arrays** : Implementation of other data structures, Execution of matrices and vectors, Dynamic memory allocation, Pointer container, Control tables.
- **Stack**: Evaluation of expressions, Backtracking, Runtime memory management, Arrangement of books in a library.
- **Queue**: Here, the data sent need not be received at the same rate at which it was sent. A certain system resource is to be shared between different processes.
- **Linked-List**: Representation of sparse matrices, Non-contiguous data storage, Implementation of non-binary tree or other data structures, Dynamic memory management, Equalizing parenthesis, Symbol tables.
- **Set**: Mapping of data, Common data storage.
- **Graph**: Computer networking, Problem solutions involving 'Depth-First' search or 'Breadth-First' search algorithms, Representation of matrices, Study of molecular interactions in Chemistry.
- **Tree**: Representation of data lists, Quickly accessible data storage, Representation of hierarchal data, Routing of algorithms.
Hash-table: Unique data representation, Implementation of caches, Array association, Locating entries in a table, Representation of objects, Database indexing.
- **File**: Implementation of computer programs, Data comparison, Storage of data having varying data types.

## Array:
**Array** is a list of some same types of elements each identified by at least one array index or key.

## Linked List:
A **linked list** is a linear collection of data elements whose order is not given by their physical placement in memory. Instead, each element points to the next. It is a data structure consisting of a collection of nodes which together represent a sequence.

# Array vs Linked List:
- Array's elements can be accessed in **constant time** wheras accessing elements of Linked-List takes **linear time**.
- Array's element can be accessed **using index** and elements of Linked-List need to be accessed **one by one** from the beginning.
- Operations like **INSERTION** and **DELETEATION** takes longer time on **Array** where it takes constant time using **Linked-List**.
- Arrays are **Fixed in size**. In contrast, Linked-List is dynamically sized and fexible.
- In Array memory is allocated in **compile time**. In case of Linked-List memory is allocated during the **execution on runtime**. 
- Array stores data **consecutively** and Linked-List stores data **Randomly**. 
- Array takes **less memory** than Linked-Lists because Linked-Lists use extra memory for pointers pointing the previous or next elements. 

## Stack:
A **stack** is an abstract data type that serves as a collection of elements, with two main principal operations: **PUSH**, which adds an element to the collection, and **POP**, which removes the most recently added element that was not yet removed.

## Queue:
A **queue** is a collection of entities that are maintained in a sequence and can be modified by the addition of entities at one end of the sequence(**PUSH**) and the removal of entities from the other end of the sequence(**POP**).

## Graph:
A Graph consists of a finite set of vertices(or nodes) and set of Edges which connect a pair of nodes.

## Complexity:
Complexity of an algorithm is the amount of resources required to run it. Particularly it focuses on time and memory requirements.

## Time-Space Tradeoff:
A Time-Space Tradeoff is a way of solving a problem or calculation in less time by using more storage space (or memory), or by solving a problem in very little space by spending a long time.

## Algorithm:
An algorithm is a finite sequence of well-defined, computer-implementable instructions, typically to solve a class of problems or to perform a computation.
